$Id$

Release Plan for HttpClient 3.0
-----------------------------------------

Administrivia:

This document describes a plan for a 3.0 release of the
Jakarta-Commons HttpClient component (for the remainder
of this document, simply "HttpClient").  Per the
Jakarta/ASF guidelines
(http://jakarta.apache.org/site/decisions.html), this
document doesn't mean anything until accepted by the
relevant committer community via a lazy majority vote
(hereafter, simply "lazy majority").  Once accepted, it may
be replaced by an alternative plan, again subject to lazy
majority approval.

Non-binding votes (votes cast by those outside the relevant
committer community) are welcome, but only binding votes
are significant for decision making purposes.

Objective:

The objective of the 3.0 release of HttpClient is to build upon 
the foundation laid with the previous release while addressing 
those  architectural shortcomings and flaws identified during 2.0 
development process. Several well known and much complained about 
problems could not be resolved without sacrificing API stability. 
The primary motivation behind the 3.0 is to fix those design 
limitations, breaking 2.0 API compatibility where absolutely 
unavoidable, while preserving overall compatibility with 2.0
use patterns.  

Planned fixes and modifications:

 1. Better exception handling framework (Bug #19868).

 2. Cross-site redirect fix. Authentication, redirect & retry logic
    to be moved from HttpMethodBase to HttpClient (Bug #20089,
    #16729).

 3. New configuration architecture that includes plug-in mechanism 
    for cookie policies & authentication schemes (Bug #15435, 
    #10790, #10790, #15297, #21151).

 4. More reliable header parser (Bug #11240, #21210).

 5. Ability to abort requests (Bug #20288).

 6. A better test framework than SimpleHttpConnectionManager, that 
    allows to more closely mimic real  HttpConnection behavior, 
    thus enabling more tests without actually requiring a real 
    connection. 

 7. Decision on new external dependencies: commons-lang, commons-codec
    (Bug #16881)

 8. Removal of functions & classes deprecated in 2.0


Release Manager:

  Michael Becke (Starting 15 October, 2003)


Voting:
 <---- Please return this portion with your vote ---->
[ ] +1    I am in favor of this plan and I will help
[ ] +0    I am in favor of this plan, but I am unable to help
[ ] -0    I am not in favor of this plan
[ ] -1    I am opposed to this plan being executed, and my reason is:
 <---- /Please return this portion with your vote ---->

 
Feature/Fault Tracking:

BugZilla will be the mechanism for tracking features and faults
(ie: bugs).  When the new Scarab system becomes available, Scarab
will replace BugZilla in this role.

Milestone development will begin immediately on approval
of this release plan.  All repository changes that are non-trivial 
will require a bugzilla bug or feature enhancement request.
It will be the responsibility of the release manager to categorize
bugs/features into release versions, but will always remain
subject to the will of the majority.  In order to declare that a
release has been reached, all bugs/features categorized into 
that target release must be completed and a vote must pass 
subject to lazy approval.

The following procedure will be followed:
1) All changes must be motivated by a bugzilla change request.
2) Patches constructed according to standard practice should be 
attached to the relevant BugZilla bug.
3) A committer can then commit the patch to the repository.


Milestone Development Phases:

3.0 Alpha development
Designations: 3.0A1, 3.0A2
During the previous period of development, many new features
were added, dependencies were changes, interfaces were impacted.
During Milestone development, the nature of the changes will
focus on:
a) interface changes
b) functionality additions
c) fault fixing

3.0 Beta development
Designations: 3.0B1, 3.0B2
Development will be focused on quality and stability.  No new
major features will be added, with the following change types
being the most prelevent:
a) fix faults with accompanying test cases
b) additional test cases to improve functionality
c) improve documentation

3.0 Release development
Designations: 3.0RC1, 3.0RC2, 3.0
When all features are complete and all reported bugs have been fixed,
a release candidate (RC) build will be released.  Any reported bugs
that are targeted for the 3.0 release will be fixed and a new RC
build will be released.  After a week of no changes, the last RC
build will become the 3.0 release with the following changes only:
release version, aside from:
a) change the release tag in the build.xml/project.xml
b) update the site documentation to indicate that there is a release

Post 3.0 Release development
Designations: 3.0.x
Following the release, only Bugzilla tracked bugs with attached
patches will be committed to the repository.  These patches must
only:
a) fix faults with accompanying test case(s)
b) improve documentation
